Tis true without lying, certain and most true.
That which is below is like that which is above
and that which is above is like that is below 
to do the miracles of one only thing
And as all things have been and arose from one by the mediation of one: 
so all things have their birth from this one thing by adaptation.

---

1)  "It is neither religious nor wise to judge that of which you know nothing."

_A Brief Guide to the Celestial Ruby_, by PHILALETHES (17th century)

----

Orbroom 7 (lavalake):

2) 

Among those who devote themselves to the transmutation of metals, however, there can be no such thing as
mediocrity of attainment. A person who studies this Art, must have either everything or nothing. An Alchemist who
knows only half their craft, reaps nothing but disappointment and waste of time and money; moreover, they lay themselves
open to the mockery of those who despise our Art. Those, indeed, who succeed in reaching the goal of the
Magistery, have not only infinite riches, but the means of continued life and health. Hence it is the most popular of
all human pursuits. 

*) vaihtoehto ---- vinkki pohjalla olevasta magnum opuksesta
 This much we know the perfection of our sacred art lies within the roots of the world. 


/Thunder cloud

----

Orb 3 (lavalaken alla)

Teksti? - Teknologian avulla 
Head my warning or death and decay will follow. 

/Nuke

----

Orb 0 (vuoren päällä)

Tis true without lying, certain and most true.
That which is below is like that which is above
and that which is above is like that is below 
to do the miracles of one only thing
And as all things have been and arose from one by the mediation of one: 
so all things have their birth from this one thing by adaptation.

/Sea of Lava

---

Orb 1 (Pyramidin päällä)

The necessity of concealing the Art is one of the chief anxieties of alchemists. 

We are sworn to secrecy by heaven and earth and hell, by the four elements, by the height and the depth, by Hermes, by Anubis, and by the howlings of Kerkoros. An oath has been required of us to reveal nothing clearly to any uninitiated being.

/earth quake

[https://archive.org/stream/turbaphilosophor00gratiala/turbaphilosophor00gratiala_djvu.txt]


---

Orb 4 (Pyramidin alla)

The definition of death is the disjunction of the composite, but there is no disjunction of that which is simple, for it is one. Death consists in the separation of the soul from the 
body, because anything formed out of two, three, or four components must disintegrate, and this is death. Understand, further, that no complex substance which lacks fire eats, drinks, 
or sleeps, because in all things which have a spirit fire is that which eats.

[https://archive.org/stream/turbaphilosophor00gratiala/turbaphilosophor00gratiala_djvu.txt]

/Necromancy

----

Orb 10 (Aavikon alla)

Take, he tells us, the stone of gold, combine with humour which is 
permanent water, set in its vessel, over a gentle fire until liquefaction 
takes place. Then leave it until the water dries, and the sand and 
water are combined, one with another; then let the fire be more intense than 
before, until it again becomes dry, and is made earth. When this is done, 
understand that here is the beginning of the arcanum ; but do this many 
times, until two-thirds of the water perish, and colours manifest unto you. 

/cement

10479, 16048

----

Orb 8 (Hell)

Woe unto all ye fools! 
How ignorant are ye of this Art, for whichye would die if ye knew it! 
I swear to you that if kings were familiar with it, none of us would ever attain this thing. 
O how this nature changeth body into spirit! 
O how admirable is Nature, how she presides over all, and overcomes all.

// mad god of knowledge ?
// Kirjottaa 

/fireworks

----

Orb 9 (Lumen alla)

In this way, then, Nature generates by means of this sulphur the different kinds of metals in the veins of the earth, according to the diversity of degrees and alterations.
/WIP
[Hermetic Museum]

/ exploding deer

---

Orb 06 (Vault)

Some Alchemists fancy that the work from beginning to end is a mere idle entertainment; 
but those who make it so will reap what they have sown -- nothing. 
We know that next to the Divine Blessing, and the discovery of the proper foundation, 
nothing is so important as unwearied industry and perseverance in this First Operation. 
It is no wonder, then, that so many students of this Art are reduced to beggary; 
they are afraid of work, and look upon our Art as mere sport for their leisure moments. 
For no labour is more tedious than that which the preparatory part of our enterprise demands. 

[Hermetic Museum]

/spiral shot

---

Orb 05 (Wand cave)

And the Lord spake, saying, 'First shalt thou take out the Holy Pin. Then, shalt thou count to three. No more. No less. Three shalt be the number thou shalt count, and the number of the counting shall be three. Four shalt thou not count, neither count thou two, excepting that thou then proceed to three. Five is right out. Once at the number three, being the third number be reached, then, lobbest thou thy Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch towards thy foe, who, being naughty in My sight, shall snuff it.'

/Holy hand grenade

----

Orb 02 (Snow vault)

"thence is born a spirit white as snow, and another spirit red as blood, which two spirits are contained in a third hidden thing."

/tentacle

----

The watchful Dragon I stupefied with a narcotic, which I cast into his maw; and while he was in that helpless state, I hastened to extract his teeth.
[Hermetic Museum]

On the Hermetic Medicine of the Phoenix
If all the mountains were of silver and gold, what would they profit a man who
lives in constant fear of death ? Hence there cannot be in the whole world anything
better than our Medicine, which has power to heal all the diseases of the flesh.
Wealth, and riches, and gold, all yield the prize to this glorious possession: and
whoever does not think so, is not a man, but a beast.

[Hermetic Museum]

The Three Treatises of Philalethes (part 1)
CHAPTER I

*)

Of the Claims of our Art, its Students, and its Method

**) But only few attain to the goal of their wishes... There are many.... vois korvaa pelin loreen sopivilla

All who devote their lives to the study of any art, or to any kind of occupation, have before their eyes, as the
aim of their efforts, perfection in the thing which they pursue. But only few attain to the goal of their wishes: there
are many architects, but few masters of the art of architecture; many students of medicine, but few like
Hippocrates or Galen; many mathematicians, but few proficients like Archimedes; many poets, but few worthy to
rank with Homer. Yet, even they who have nothing more than a respectable knowledge of their calling, are capable
of being useful to society.



---


----


Cook the copper until it become a gentle and impalpable body, and impose in its own vessel ; then 
sublimate the same six or seven times until the water shall descend. And know that when the water 
has become powder then has it been ground diligently. But if ye ask, how is the water made a powder ? note that the 
intention of the Philosophers is that the 
body before which before it falls into the 
water is not water may become water ; 
the said water is mixed with the other 
water, and they become one water. 
It is to be stated, therefore, that 
unless ye turn the thing mentioned 
into water,* ye shall not attain to 
the work. It is, therefore, necessary 
for the body to be so possessed by 
the flame of the fire that it is dis- 
integrated and becomes weak with 
the water, when the water has been 


mentary of Agathodaimon upon the Oracle of Orpheu* is 
extant in the Greek collection. 

But fools, hearing of water, think that this is water of the 
clouds. Had they read our books they would know that it is permanent water, 
which cannot become permanent without its companion, wherewith it is 
made one. But this is the water which the Philosophers have called Water 
of Gold, the Igneous, Good Venom, and that Sand of Many Names which Hermes ordered to be 
washed frequently, so that the blackness of the Sun might be removed, which 
he introduced in the solution of the body. 

And know, all ye seekers after this Art, that unless ye take this pure body, that is, 
our copper without the spirit, ye will by no means get what ye desire, because no foreign 
thing enters therein, nor does anything enter unless it be pure. Therefore, all ye seekers 
after this Art, dismiss the multitude of obscure names, for the nature is one water.

struction, and loses his life. Therefore, 
keep this one nature, but dismiss what 
is foreign. 
